### Warning: This project is still flagged as "Work in progress", keep that in mind, please.
# OpenStack-MariaDB-backup-and-restore
The Ansible project for creating backups for the core OpenStack services form the MariaDB database as well as restoring them. This project is exclusively set up for the needs of the BUTCA (Brno University of Technology Cyber Arena). In addition to backuping MariaDB, it is possible to backup pressent OS images and snapshots and store them in the external server.

## Use case
This project is intended to be run from the AWX platform, so the inventory and vault credentials are configured there, with few modification, it can be run from the CLI as well (the major difference is the configuration of the Ansible vault).

In the file 'globals.yaml' are defined databases, which can be backuped (restored respectively). Currently, the possible databases are:
 * cinder
 * glance
 * heat
 * keystone
 * neutron
 * nova
 * nova_api
 * nova_cell0
 * placement

If the MariaDB databases will differ in the future, the parameter 'mariadb_databases' can be changed accordingly. Based on the values in the 'mariadb_databases' parameter, the extra-vars can be executed along with the backup or restore playbook.

### The extra vars for the backup.yaml playbook
#### In the AWX environment:
Edit the variables box, e.g.:
```
---
selected_databases:
  - cinder
  - keystone
  - neutron
```

or, if all databases should be backuped:
```
---
selected_databases: 
  - all
```

#### In the CLI, e.g.:

``` ansible-playbook <path_to_the_backup.yaml> -e '{"selected_databases": ["cinder", "keystone", "neutron"]}' ```

### The extra vars for the restore.yaml playbook
#### In the AWX environment:

Edit the variables box, e.g.:
```
---
selected_backups:
  - cinder
  - keystone
  - neutron
timestamp:
  -  2023-03-25_14:53:50
```

or, if all databases should be restored:
```
---
selected_backups:
  - all
timestamp:
  -  2023-03-25_14:53:50
```

Both 'selected_backups' and 'timestamp' vars are mandatory for successful playbook run!

The 'timestamp' value can be found in the '/tmp' directory as it is the default directory on the host machine for storing the backup files. Timestamp is automatically generated by Ansible before creating the backup files.

#### In the CLI, e.g.:

``` ansible-playbook <path_to_the_backup.yaml> -e '{"selected_backups": ["all"], "timestamp": ["2023-03-25_14:53:50"]}' ```

For both backup and restore, you can pass extra vars as a file in the valid YAML format and pass it as, e.g.:

``` ansible-playbook <path_to_the_backup.yaml> -e @vars_file.yml ```

## TODO: Requirements
* Ansible >= 2.10
* Ansible vault

### On hosts machine (the host with the MariaDB container):
* Python >= 3.6
* openstacksdk with the ```clouds.yaml``` file specified on the host machine to suit the individual OpenStack environment, for more information, please refer to the OpenStack.Cloud collection.
* Docker API >= 1.20
* Docker SDK for Python

## TODO: 
* Copy the backup files to the storage server
* Finnish the testing setup
* Add the playbook, which would backup only the images used for the BUTCA purposes.
* Edit the mariadb_password variable, so it could  be set up as the extra-vars
